README.md, before:

# AI Image Canvas

An interactive AI-powered image canvas where you can generate images using text prompts and arrange them by dragging or organizing them in a grid layout.

## Features

- 🎨 **AI Image Generation**: Generate images from text prompts using FAI API
- 🖱️ **Drag & Drop**: Freely drag images anywhere on the canvas
- 📐 **Grid Organization**: Automatically organize images in a neat grid layout
- 🗑️ **Image Management**: Delete individual images or clear the entire canvas
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- ⚡ **Real-time Updates**: See your changes instantly

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19, Next.js 15.3.5, TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Drag & Drop**: react-draggable
- **AI Integration**: FAI API (Fal.ai)
- **HTTP Client**: Axios

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm
- FAI API key (get one from [fal.ai](https://fal.ai/))

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd ai-canvas
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
# Copy the example environment file
cp .env.local.example .env.local

# Edit .env.local and add your FAI API key
NEXT_PUBLIC_FAI_API_KEY=your_fai_api_key_here
```

4. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

## Usage

1. **Generate Images**: Enter a text prompt in the input field and click "Generate"
2. **Drag Images**: Click and drag any image to move it around the canvas
3. **Organize Grid**: Click "Organize Grid" to arrange all images in a neat grid layout
4. **Delete Images**: Hover over an image and click the × button to delete it
5. **Clear Canvas**: Click "Clear All" to remove all images from the canvas

## API Configuration

The app automatically detects your API configuration:

- **Real AI Generation**: Add your FAI API key to `NEXT_PUBLIC_FAI_API_KEY` in your environment
- **Demo Mode**: Automatically enabled when no API key is present (uses placeholder images)
- **Force Demo Mode**: Set `NEXT_PUBLIC_USE_DEMO_MODE=true` to use demo mode even with an API key

No configuration needed to get started - the app works out of the box in demo mode!

## Deploy on Vercel

1. Push your code to a GitHub repository
2. Connect your repository to Vercel
3. Add your environment variables in the Vercel dashboard
4. Deploy!

The app is optimized for Vercel deployment and will work out of the box.

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues and pull requests to improve the application!

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

save and load canvas files (#5)
* saving and loading to/from database backend works

* save + save a copy

* saving works! now for some clean up

* separate out share modal

* use a file menu instead of separate buttons

* add missed commit file

* show placeholder while images are loading

* get rid of originalSrc property

* fix loading image with empty src

* Get rid of annoying fullscreen loading screen

* add server logging and error

README.md, after:

# AI Image Canvas

An interactive AI-powered image canvas where you can generate images using text prompts and arrange them by dragging or organizing them in a grid layout.

## Features

- 🎨 **AI Image Generation**: Generate images from text prompts using FAI API
- 🖱️ **Drag & Drop**: Freely drag images anywhere on the canvas
- 📐 **Grid Organization**: Automatically organize images in a neat grid layout
- 🗑️ **Image Management**: Delete individual images or clear the entire canvas
- 💾 **Document Saving**: Save and load your canvas creations with shareable URLs
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- ⚡ **Real-time Updates**: See your changes instantly

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19, Next.js 15.3.5, TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Drag & Drop**: react-draggable
- **AI Integration**: FAI API (Fal.ai)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL
- **HTTP Client**: Axios

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm
- PostgreSQL database
- FAI API key (get one from [fal.ai](https://fal.ai/))
- OpenAI api key

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd ai-canvas
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up environment variables:
```bash
# Create .env.local file
cp .env.local.example .env.local

# Edit .env.local and add your configuration
DATABASE_URL=<your postgresql database>
FAI_API_KEY=your_fai_api_key_here
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
```

4. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

5. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser

## Usage

1. **Generate Images**: Enter a text prompt in the input field and click "Generate"
2. **Drag Images**: Click and drag any image to move it around the canvas
3. **Organize Grid**: Click "Organize Grid" to arrange all images in a neat grid layout
4. **Delete Images**: Hover over an image and click the × button to delete it
5. **Save Documents**: Click "Save" to save your canvas and get a shareable URL
6. **Load Documents**: Open shared URLs to load saved canvases
7. **Clear Canvas**: Click "Clear All" to remove all images from the canvas

## API Configuration

The app uses secure server-side API routes and automatically detects your configuration:

- **Real AI Generation**: Add your `FAI_API_KEY` to your environment for image generation
- **Prompt Variations**: Add your `OPENAI_API_KEY` for AI-powered prompt suggestions
- **Document Storage**: Add your `DATABASE_URL` for saving and loading canvases
- **Demo Mode**: Automatically enabled when no API keys are present (uses placeholder images)

No configuration needed to get started - the app works out of the box in demo mode! All API keys are secure on the server and never exposed to the client.

## Deploy on Vercel

1. Push your code to a GitHub repository
2. Connect your repository to Vercel
3. Add your environment variables in the Vercel dashboard:
   - `DATABASE_URL` - Your PostgreSQL database connection string
   - `FAI_API_KEY` - Your FAI API key for image generation
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY` - Your OpenAI API key for prompt variations
4. Deploy!

The app is optimized for Vercel deployment and will work out of the box.

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues and pull requests to improve the application!

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
